Title:      Adversary model
Summary:    Description of the adversary types in Dscuss.
Copyright:  (c) 2016 Vitaly Minko
            Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 and
            Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License
Date:       02 Jan 2016
Web:        http://vminko.org/dscuss/adversary


Common assumptions
------------------

* Adversarial nodes can violate the protocol.
* Adversary can not break cryptography.
* The computational power of the adversary is comparable to the computational
power of the average modern PC.


Adversary in physical vicinity
------------------------------

* Attacker can compromise user's private key. The user is responsible for
maintaining his or her private key in a safe location.


Adversary, who has achieved social infiltration
-----------------------------------------------

* Temporary disturb user by sending unsolicited messages (SPAM) and/or malicious
operations. The user can quickly clean the attacker's data out and warn other
users about the malicious peer.


Local network adversary
-----------------------

* Adversary can have many participating nodes in the network and the nodes are
free to collaborate out-of-band.
* As any other peer in the network, adversarial nodes can see:
    - who is participating with them in the network;
    - subscriptions of the participants;
    - unencrypted data (messages and operations) distributed via adversarial
    nodes.
* Adversary can block some communication routes into the network, but a node is
always able to communicate with at least one other node that is not controlled
by an adversary.


Global network adversary
------------------------

* All the local network adversary can do.
* Adversary can not interrupt communications between arbitrary nodes in the
network.

