Title:      How to setup your own Dscuss node
Summary:    This step-by-step manual describes how to register a new Dscuss user
            and to login to the network using this user.
Copyright:  (c) 2019 Vitaly Minko
            Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 and
            Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License
Date:       14 Sep 2019
Web:        http://vminko.org/dscuss/setup

1. Prepare
----------

Setup the go development environment: [Getting Started](https://golang.org/doc/install).

2. Get the source code
----------------------

Create directory for the source code:

    mkdir -p ${GOPATH}/src/vminko.org
    cd ${GOPATH}/src/vminko.org

Clone the git repository:

    git clone git://vminko.org/dscuss

If you want to get the proof-of-concept version (which is more or less stable),
then also execute the following command:

    git reset --hard proof-of-concept

Get the dependencies:

        go get github.com/abiosoft/ishell \
               github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3 \
               github.com/nictuku/dht \
               golang.org/x/crypto/scrypt


3. Create executable files
--------------------------

    cd ${GOPATH}/src/vminko.org/dscuss

Compile the CLI program:

    go build -o dscuss-cli cmd/dscuss-cli/main.go

Compile the Web service:

    go build -o dscuss-web cmd/dscuss-web/main.go


4. Register new user
--------------------

Each Dscuss node must be associated with a user. So first of all you need to
register a new user. In order to do this, start the CLI program. The web UI does
not provide registration yet.

    $ ./dscuss-cli
    Starting Dscuss...
    Welcome to Dscuss.

Register new user using `reg` command. This will take few hours on the first
production release (each user must calculate proof-of-work), The development
version has much lower proof-of-work requirements and registering new user takes
just few seconds.

    > reg
    Nickname: adam
    Enter some additional info: I'm the first Dscuss user. Send your PM to adam@paradise.
    Enter list of topics you are interested in. Each topic is a set of comma separated tags. and end with 'DSC': 
    p2p,dscuss,devel
    food,vegetarian,fruits
    photography,landscape
    DSC
    Registering new user. Do not interrupt the process.
    Otherwise you'll have to remove the user directory manually.
    User registered successfully.
    Edit /home/user/.dscuss/addresses.txt in your favorite editor if you want to customize peer addresses.

It's recommended for new users to subscribe to `p2p,dscuss,devel` topic in order
to establish connection with the special development user (named `bootstrap`).


5. Login to the network
-----------------------

    > login adam

Check connections with other peers. In  case you have subscribed to
`p2p,dscuss,devel`, you should have at least one connection (with the bootstrap
peer).

    > lspeers full
    There is one connected peer:
    PEER #0
    Nickname:             bootstrap
    ID:                   qWvEotv4WBsFNFJa2LN/XMsPaGT7uNSVvNU+KEb0nnE=
    LocalAddr:            192.168.43.78:57642
    RemoteAddr:           176.56.48.8:8004
    AssociatedAddrs:      176.56.48.8:8004,176.56.48.8:8004
    Subscriptions:        dscuss,devel
    State:                Idle

6. Using the CLI
----------------
 
 Dscuss has full featured command-line interface. It's mostly meant for
 autotesting and debugging. If you prefer a user-friendly interface, try the Web
 UI.

 To get familiar with all available commands run the `help` command:

    Commands:
      addmdr        <id>, make user <id> a moderator
      ban           <id> <reason>, ban user <id> because of <reason>
      clear         clear the screen
      exit          exit the program
      help          display help
      login         <nickname>, login as user <nickname>
      logout        logout from the network
      lsboard       [topic], list a particular topic or all threads on the board
      lshist        list history of users
      lsmdr         list the current user's moderators
      lsop          (user|msg) <id>, list operations on user or message <id>
      lspeers       list connected peers
      lssubs        list the current user's subscriptions
      lsthread      <id>, display a particular thread
      mkreply       <id>, publish a new reply to message <id>
      mkthread      start a new thread
      reg           register new user
      rmmdr         <id>, remove user <id> from the list of moderators
      rmmsg         <id> <reason>, remove message <id> because of <reason>
      sub           <topic>. subscribe to <topic>
      unsub         <topic>, unsubscribe from <topic>
      ver           display versions of Dscuss and the CLI
      whoami        display nickname of the current user


7. Using the Web UI
-------------------

To start the web service, you must specify the peer's user and the password to
protect access to the Web UI. For example:

    ./dscuss-web -user adam -password qwerty

After that you can view [the web interface](http://127.0.0.1:8080) in the
browser as a guest user or [Login](http://127.0.0.1:8080/login) as the owner of
the peer.
